[BIOMD0000000008](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000008)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Gardner1998 - Cell Cycle Goldbeter
======================================================================

Model
-----

* **Model File:** BIOMD0000000008.em
* **Submitter:** Yasuhiro Naito
* **Encoders:** Takeshi Itoh (E-Cell Sprint 2013)

Description from BioModels
--------------------------

### Reference Publication

* **Publication ID:** [9826676](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9826676)
* Gardner TS, Dolnik M, Collins JJ.  
A theory for controlling cell cycle dynamics using a reversibly binding inhibitor.  
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1998 Nov; 95(24): 14190-14195  
Center for BioDynamics and Department of Biomedical Engineering, Boston University, 44 Cummington Street, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 

### Model

* **Original Model:** [BIOMD0000000008.xml.origin](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/models-main/publ/BIOMD0000000008/BIOMD0000000008.xml.origin)
* **Submitter:** Nicolas Le Novère
* **Encoders:** Bruce Shapiro

### Notes

####Gardner1998 - Cell Cycle Goldbeter

Mathematical modeling of cell division cycle (CDC) dynamics.

The SBML file has been generated by MathSBML 2.6.0.p960929 (Prerelease Version of 29-Sept-2006) 1-October-2006 15:36:36.076517.

This model is described in the article:  
A theory for controlling cell cycle dynamics using a reversibly binding inhibitor.  
Gardner TS, Dolnik M, Collins JJ  
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1998:95(24):14190-14195

Abstract:  
We demonstrate, by using mathematical modeling of cell division cycle (CDC) dynamics, a potential mechanism for precisely controlling the frequency of cell division and regulating the size of a dividing cell. Control of the cell cycle is achieved by artificially expressing a protein that reversibly binds and inactivates any one of the CDC proteins. In the simplest case, such as the checkpoint-free situation encountered in early amphibian embryos, the frequency of CDC oscillations can be increased or decreased by regulating the rate of synthesis, the binding rate, or the equilibrium constant of the binding protein. In a more complex model of cell division, where size-control checkpoints are included, we show that the same reversible binding reaction can alter the mean cell mass in a continuously dividing cell. Because this control scheme is general and requires only the expression of a single protein, it provides a practical means for tuning the characteristics of the cell cycle in vivo.

