[BIOMD0000000004](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000004)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Goldbeter1991 - Min Mit Oscil, Expl Inact
======================================================================

Model
-----

* **Model File:** BIOMD0000000004.em
* **Submitter:** Yasuhiro Naito
* **Encoders:** Yasuhiro Naito

Description from BioModels
--------------------------

### Reference Publication

* **Publication ID:** [1833774](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1833774)
* Goldbeter A. 
A minimal cascade model for the mitotic oscillator involving cyclin and cdc2 kinase. 
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1991 Oct; 88(20): 9107-9111 
Faculté des Sciences, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium.  

### Model

* **Original Model:** [BIOMD0000000004.xml.origin](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/models-main/publ/BIOMD0000000004/BIOMD0000000004.xml.origin)
* **Submitter:** Nicolas Le Novère
* **Encoders:**  Bruce Shapiro

### Notes

Goldbeter1991 - Min Mit Oscil, Expl Inact

This model represents the inactive forms of CDC-2 Kinase and Cyclin Protease as separate species, unlike the ODEs in the published paper, in which the equations for the inactive forms are substituted into the equations for the active forms using a mass conservation rule M+MI=1,X+XI=1. Mass is still conserved in this model through the explicit reactions M<->MI and X<->XI. The terms in the kinetic laws are identical to the corresponding terms in the kinetic laws in the published paper.
This model has been generated by MathSBML 2.4.6 (14-January-2005) 14-January-2005 18:37:35.503857.

This model is described in the article:

A minimal cascade model for the mitotic oscillator involving cyclin and cdc2 kinase.

Goldbeter A.

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1991 Oct; 88(20):9107-11

Abstract:

A minimal model for the mitotic oscillator is presented. The model, built on recent experimental advances, is based on the cascade of post-translational modification that modulates the activity of cdc2 kinase during the cell cycle. The model pertains to the situation encountered in early amphibian embryos, where the accumulation of cyclin suffices to trigger the onset of mitosis. In the first cycle ofthe bicyclic cascade model, cyclin promotes the activation of cdc2 kinase through reversible dephosphorylation, and in the second cycle, cdc2 kinase activates a cyclin protease by reversible phosphorylation. That cyclin activates cdc2 kinase while the kinase triggers the degradation of cyclin has suggested that oscillations may originate from such a negative feedback loop [Félix, M. A., Labbé, J. C., Dorée, M., Hunt, T. & Karsenti, E. (1990) Nature (London) 346, 379-382]. Thisconjecture is corroborated by the model, which indicates that sustained oscillations of the limit cycle type can arise in the cascade, provided that a threshold exists in the activation of cdc2 kinase by cyclin and in the activation of cyclinproteolysis by cdc2 kinase. The analysis shows how miototic oscillations may readily arise from time lags associated with these thresholds and from the delayed negative feedback provided by cdc2-induced cyclin degradation. A mechanism for theorigin of the thresholds is proposed in terms of the phenomenon of zero-order ultrasensitivity previously described for biochemical systems regulated by covalent modification.
